>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Philip K. Dick
was a man who saw the future.
Back in the 1950s, he
warned of a darkening time
in history of surveillance
and corporatocracy.
Anthony Peake has
chronicled his life
in a book titled "Philip
K. Dick: The Man Who
Remembered the Future."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA: Anthony,
one of the-- I mean,
you're known for your
studies in consciousness,
in physics and the interface.
And why did you decide to do
a biography, to start with?
Give us a little bit
of background on you
for those who aren't
already aware of your work.
>>ANTHONY PEAKE: OK,
well, I've written
a series of books, mostly
about the interfaces,
you say, between
consciousness and reality,
because it's something that's
always fascinated me ever
since I was a child, really.
And I was fortunate enough
to get a book deal around
about nine years ago
for my first book,
"Is There Life
After Death?," which
takes a radical new
approach to consciousness
and what happens to
human consciousness
at point of death.
My second book,
"The Daemon: A Guide
to Extraordinary Secret
Self," particularly focused
in on the idea of human duality
and the idea of the higher
self.
But I always take the
approach of doing the science,
so I was doing the
neurological aspects,
the neurochemical
aspects of such an idea.
And it was then that I
started to become fascinated,
or re-fascinated, with the
work of Philip K. Dick.
And the final chapter
of that particular book,
"The Owl in Daylight,"
deals with Philip K.
Dick and some
extraordinary events
that happened during his life.
And it was one of my publishers
who said, do you know what?
We think that the world needs
a new biography of Philip K.
Dick, particularly taking
it from your angle, which
is subtly different from what
the other biographers have
done.
Because I'm also a
qualified psychometrician,
so I was able to analyze Phil
psychometrically as well.
Because I was in the
fortunate position
of being able to get
across some raw scores
of a psychometric profile
that Phil did in the 1950s
for Raymond Cattell.
Because Raymond Cattell was
the inventor of the 16PF.
And Cattell had approached
around about 80 or 90 writers,
and Phil actually responded.
And therefore I was in
a wonderful position
of being able to actually get a
little bit more into his head.
And it went from there, really.
>>REGINA: You've spent
how long in his head?
>>PEAKE: Oh, around
about 18 months.
But I think I've spent more--
>>REGINA: And that's such an
unusual head to spend time in.
I mean, obviously your
interest is-- your background
is in sociology, history.
You span way out into the
quantum realms as well.
And it seems that this
man was able to bridge
the gap between
all that and more.
And that's-- we're going
to get into some of that.
This man had an
extraordinary ability.
But he was highly nuanced.
He had a really challenged
life at the same time.
>>PEAKE: He certainly did.
>>REGINA: What did that do to
your life to be in his head?
>>PEAKE: I felt quite
curious sometimes.
I mean, I went through the
circumstances of admiring him
beyond-- intellectually
admiring him
and at the same
time wondering, why
on Earth did you do
that in that way?
He did very, very strange
things in his life.
He made very curious decisions.
And he was very needy
in many, many ways.
In many ways he was also a very
sad person and a lonely person.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
we're going to get
into what happened from
the beginning in his life.
What set him up for that?
>>PEAKE: Effectively
his birth, in the sense
that he was born in Chicago in
extremely cold winter in 1928.
And circumstances were
that he was born as twins.
And his sister
Jane unfortunately
died around about six,
eight weeks later.
So Phil spent his whole
life missing a part of him.
And one can only imagine
that that situation worsened
when his parents split up, and
Phil's mom moved to California,
leaving Phil an only child with
a highly intelligent but very,
very complex mother.
And Phil's relationship
with his mother was curious,
was difficult sometimes as well.
>>REGINA: Didn't he feel
that she was somehow
responsible in her own care
and her care of the babies
that she didn't really do
the best she could have
and that the sister died at
the hand of her own neglect?
>>PEAKE: Correct.
In many interviews, he claimed
that it was his mother's fault
and that he blamed
her in some way.
>>REGINA: So that would set up
a very complex relationship.
He's missing his
other half, and he
feels his mother was to blame.
>>PEAKE: It would, indeed.
>>REGINA: The father
is gone, and that's
going to come up later
in the conversation.
He found another one.
>>PEAKE: Yes, it's
a classic-- it's
a very classic psychometric
profile in many, many ways.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
what happened to him.
Then the father--
by the age of five,
the father was gone, right?
>>PEAKE: Yes.
>>REGINA: And now,
as life goes on,
he's starting to have higher
and higher levels of anxiety.
Obviously he was
a very sensitive
being born into this life.
>>PEAKE: As an
interesting aside here
is that I also discovered
that his sister-- his mother's
sister-- I think is Marion--
was also a psychic, which again
brings in some very
interesting aspects in terms
of Phil's life.
And he was very,
very close to Marion,
who also died
comparatively young.
But as a child, he was clearly
highly intelligent but in a way
that probably the
society of that time
couldn't really
accommodate in that he
was interested in so
many different things.
And to tie that kind of mind
down to one particular area
is very difficult.
But on top of that, he
started to have very, very
curious subjective sensations.
I mean, he suffered from
something called micropsia,
which is effectively he
felt that he would actually
become smaller and
smaller and smaller
or he'd feel himself expanding.
And in my book, I discuss
this in some detail.
It's actually called the
Alice in Wonderland syndrome.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
I was going to say
that's not uncommon
for people who also
are either meditating or
have this multidimensional
awareness.
This sense of expansion
and contraction
is actually quite normal.
Of course, it had to be turned
into a medical condition.
>>PEAKE: Of course,
and that's the issue.
I mean, effectively
there is certain evidence
to say that he could've
been a classic migrainer.
Because as a classic migrainer
myself, I know as a child
I had that kind of expanding
feeling and contracting
sensation.
But Phil felt it
was actually almost
disassociating from reality.
And it was at that very
early stage in his life
that he became fascinated by
the interface between reality,
what he perceived to be
reality, and what is reality.
I mean, he had a
curious conversation
when he was a teenager.
He worked in a record
store, an electrical store.
And he had a
fascinating conversation
once with a group of his fellow
workers about perception.
And he was discussing,
as many of us think,
that you perceive
the color red--
how do I know that your
perception of color red
is identical to mine?
Now, these are very, very
deep, philosophical concepts
for a young man to be
thinking about at that age.
So clearly he was thinking-- I
hate the term out of the box--
even at that stage.
>>REGINA: Yes, I understand.
And as you say, this is
a function of migraines.
But it's also a function of
altered states of consciousness
to feel that way.
>>PEAKE: Well, I think it's
a question of labeling.
We label these things as
being aberrant or dangerous or
difficult states
of consciousness,
whereas in fact all it is is
the brain is actually accessing,
or consciousness is accessing,
a broader spectrum of reality
than we normally do.
>>REGINA: And this
comes up a lot for him,
because he was going
through these-- let's just
say he was experiencing
altered states of reality
from a very young age-- and
his mother was dragging him
to the doctor and the
psychiatrist constantly.
And he was put on what?
Amphetamines?
By the age of nine?
>>PEAKE: They were
drugging him up.
He stated many times
that he had been
an undiagnosed schizophrenic.
Whatever an undiagnosed
schizophrenic is I'm
not quite sure.
But effectively he said
that they were much
thinking about what his
issues or problems were.
Now, in those days one
had to label things
and one had to have a category
of where somebody was.
Whereas Phil, to me, was just
an extremely deep thinker,
and they just couldn't
deal with that.
He was perceiving
things and thinking
about things in a much deeper
way than his peer group were.
>>REGINA: Mhm.
And so for him,
there was escape.
He started writing
at a very early age.
And for him, he
went into sci-fi,
but he went into really
deep cultural themes
as his life went on as well,
themes that were prescient,
that ended up being very
similar to the reality
that we're experiencing today.
He was experiencing these 50,
60 years in advance, actually.
>>PEAKE: Extremely so.
It is quite amazing when
you look back at the things
that Phil predicted
in his novels that
have come to pass now.
There's a whole list of them.
We could go on and on.
>>REGINA: I'm going
to prompt you on some,
but I would like you
bring up any that you
feel are relevant in the moment.
>>PEAKE: Well, things
like retinal displays,
the way in which
you could actually
recognize somebody's interests
from actually scanning
them, scanning their face.
My favorite one is of
doors that actually
open when you ask them
to in one of his novels.
Where the door-- I think it's
"Ubik" where the door refuses
to open unless it gives
him some-- gives him money.
But on top of that, just the
breakdown of society as well,
the way in society--
the way in which,
particularly in the novel
"Radio Free Albemuth,"
he very much conveys a society
that has developed surveillance
in massive levels
because there's
supposedly an enemy
somewhere and we
have to keep control
of our population.
So it's a surreptitious
way of actually controlling
individual thought.
He was always
hyper-aware of this.
He was a very political person.
But political with a small p.
One couldn't say he was
left-wing or right-wing.
He was very much
just Philip K. Dick
in the way he saw the world.
But he did dabble with
left-wing politics
when he was involved
with his first wife.
>>REGINA: Yes, and we'll get
to that in just a little bit.
Life started taking
on a different kind
of flavor for him at that time.
But it's interesting,
because it's not
as though he was the
first and only author.
I mean, we think of or
Orwell, for example.
He also talked about
a surveilled society.
But in the case
of Orwell, we also
know that he was
an insider and had
knowledge of what the
agenda was going to be.
And do you feel that
Phillip did not have that?
It was all within his own
being that he was essentially
scanning and receiving
this future information.
>>PEAKE: Correct.
I think with Phil, the issue
was that because of the way
his brain was
functioning, and we
can touch on that a
little bit later on,
he was seeming to
access information
from what Ervin Laszlo, the
Hungarian-American writer,
would call the Akashic
field or the Akashic record,
as if he was taking information
from somewhere else.
And in my book, I have
a series of examples
of how it can be argued that
Phil's novels themselves
were actually created by
events in his own future.
So in other words, he would
have an event in the future,
and the information
would be in some way what
he called orthogonal
time, could actually
be moved backwards in
time to actually seed
his own ideas and his own past.
>>REGINA: OK, let's talk
about orthogonal time.
I was going to bring
that up a little later,
but we'll go back
into his life and kind
of chronologically
work through it.
But this such a big theme.
Why don't you explain this now?
>>PEAKE: OK.
Orthogonal time was Phil's idea.
He discusses it in great
detail in his "Exegesis,"
which is a series of thousands
and thousands of pages
of handwritten and
type-written manuscripts
that he wrote after his 2-3-74
experiences-- his theophany,
as he termed it.
And in this he has sections on
what he calls orthogonal time.
Now, he argues what
orthogonal time is
is that time runs from the past,
becomes the pre-- time runs
from the future, comes
and becomes the present,
and then rolls into the
past like a river flowing.
Phil argued that at
any point in time
there is a time flow
which runs at right angles
to the present moment.
And he called that
orthogonal time.
Now again, it astounds me that
Phil came up with this concept
when he was-- of all the
writers he was interested in,
the one writer that came
up with this concept
was a Russian philosopher
called Peter Ouspensky.
But Phil never in
any of his writings
ever references Ouspensky.
So he came up with a very
similar idea to Ouspensky.
And his argument was
that time is just a now.
It's a present now.
And again, he wrote
about a concept
that I now know as
the linseria, which
is the long body, the
idea that we-- in time,
we're effectively all
the same individual.
So from the moment of our birth
to the moment of our death--
I'll use the example if you took
a time-lapsed photograph of us
walking around this room, we
wouldn't be a single figure.
We'd be a blur and
an extended figure.
Now, if you took a time-lapsed
photograph of somebody
over 70 years, they'd start as
a very, very small little thing,
worm-like thing, get
bigger and bigger,
and then start to shrink
again and disappear again.
This was very much Phil's
philosophy, as well,
in that any time, we are just
a snapshot, a cut-through,
what Hermann Minkowski
would call block time.
We're a block-time instant.
And the real self is all of
these selves, and that is us.
>>REGINA: So functionally
speaking, orthogonal time
is simply that
cut-through to the now.
>>PEAKE: Correct,
>>REGINA: It's just now.
>>PEAKE: It's the cut-through
to the now from outside
of three-dimensional spacetime
or four-dimensional spacetime.
>>REGINA: Thank you
for sharing that,
because he was
living in that zone.
>>PEAKE: He was.
>>REGINA: A lot.
And he was able to slide
that cut-through to any point
where he was in the
now, whether it appeared
to be the future
or whatnot, right?
>>PEAKE: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's go
back to his younger life.
Now, he's on amphetamines.
He's been diagnosed.
He's now becoming
really quite nervous
at almost everything
at life-- in life.
His dad's gone.
And now, he's a writer
by the age of nine.
By 13, his first novel
is published, right?
>>PEAKE: Well, it was
published a little bit later,
but he'd actually been
writing since then.
I think he was little
bit older than that
when his first
novel was published.
>>REGINA: "Return to
Lilluput"-- when was that?
>>PEAKE: "Return to Lilliput"
was his book-- first story
he wrote.
And technically,
yes, I think it was
published in his own magazine.
He had his own-- he
had-- Twice in his life
he worked on his own magazines.
>>REGINA: What were
these young themes
about when he was a kid still?
>>PEAKE: Well,
"Return to Lill-- he
was fascinated by the
Jules Verne and Dean Swift
and writers like that.
So he was writing as
a young individual.
But "Return to Lilliput"
always fascinated me
because I was intrigued as to
what exactly the storyline was.
And I think I'm
right in saying even
Phil himself wasn't 100%
sure what he remembered it.
But he argued it was probably
Gulliver going back many years
later to see how the
society had developed.
But as he got older, he
started to write more and more.
And I think he
became very friendly
with a guy called Tony Boucher.
And Tony Boucher was a
science fiction writer.
And Tony very much helped
him hone his skills.
>>REGINA: He also took on a
fatherly role, as I understand.
>>PEAKE: Very much so.
>>REGINA: For the
father that had
been missing all those years.
>>PEAKE: Totally.
>>REGINA: He really
loved this man,
and this man supported him
wholeheartedly, it sounds.
>>PEAKE: He was devastated
when Tony Boucher died,
very comparatively young.
And he lost him there.
But it's an interesting aside
that Phil's mother was also
doing writing lessons.
And Tony Boucher was
her teacher as well.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>PEAKE: He was doing local
lessons and Phil came along.
But then Phil started to
write his short stories,
because there seemed to
be the idea that probably
short stories was the
way to go forward.
And I think I'm right
in saying that his first
published short story, I
think, was "Here Lies the Wub,"
I think.
No, it wasn't.
It was the dog.
>>REGINA: I was
going to say, yes,
that's the one I wanted
to ask you about.
>>PEAKE: "Roog."
>>REGINA: "Roog."
That's where we're going.
I found it kind of heartrending,
the nature of that story,
because I thought it
really gives insight
into the sensitivity of this
man to look at this struggle
through the eyes of a dog.
Can you please share the
plot of "Roog" with us?
>>PEAKE: It's very much-- it's
from the viewpoint of a dog who
is aware of the fact
that there are aliens.
And the aliens are
actually stalking mankind.
But the human beings around
him don't realize the fact.
So he tries to give them a
warning by barking and saying,
roog, roog.
And whenever aliens are
around, they say roog.
And you see-- it's almost like
the cartoons of that period,
where you saw animals and human
beings would be large and big,
and they'd be looking down
at the animals in some way,
as if they were kind of
periphery to the storyline.
And of course with the
dog, it's probably, again,
symptomatic of Phil's
worldview, the inability
to communicate
important information
that he was desperately wanting
to get across, as the dog was,
which was of great
importance and danger.
And I think this says a great
deal about Phil at the time.
Again--
>>REGINA: Little
bit of noise here--
we're in a studio in London.
We have alarms going off and
things banging and clanging,
but we'll just continue on.
>>PEAKE: Absolutely.
But the way in which Phil
wrote that story, I think,
was very much
symptomatic of a lot
of the things that carried on
throughout his life, the idea
of the outsider, the idea of
the little man being controlled
by much bigger events.
His heroes are always
the journeyman.
And he's always-- he
always has difficulties
with the-- they used to
call it the nagging wife,
or the haradin, that used to
be the negativity in his life
as well.
And he was also more
done-by than the doer
in many, many ways.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And it's interesting, that
perception of dogs in this way,
because I have to say,
even in real life,
I've always found
that to be true.
The dogs, my dogs, will
always be seeing things
that we're not seeing.
And they'll stand
specifically, stare up,
and talk or growl or
bark at things in space.
I've come to respect
the fact that they're
seeing what we are not.
And they're trying to
inform us, but we're usually
not listening.
You think, what's that
silly dog going on about?
But that was his
observation at a young age.
>>PEAKE: That was.
What is that dog doing?
Why is that dog doing that?
And of course, that was
perceptive to the work
of researchers such as Rupert
Sheldrake and how a dog knows
that it's--
>>REGINA: The
owner's coming home.
>>PEAKE: The
>>REGINA: And they do.
I just had a friend who was
staying at my house say,
it's so funny.
You were coming home
from the airport,
and about an hour before you
came home, they sat there,
and they just waited at
the door, watching it.
And it's true.
It's so true.
We see this observationally,
but he proved it
more scientifically.
>>PEAKE: Well, I suppose
it's the argument here.
We could also apply the
orthogonal time in some way.
>>REGINA: Yes, that's
a very good point.
>>PEAKE: Can dogs
perceive outside of time?
And they see echoes
of the future,
and they see their owner coming
home before they come home.
>>REGINA: Absolutely
>>PEAKE: Now, again,
various writers
such as a Ouspensky, again
going about Ousepensky--
but the idea that we can
perceive things outside of time
in some way or
other and that time
can smear out both in the
future and in the past.
And of course,
there's been research
done on this in neurology, where
we now know that perception can
lie up to eight seconds
behind what is actually
happening in the outside world.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Let's now go into his life.
As he gets a little older
now, he marries young.
He's in Berkeley, OK?
So this is quite a hotbed of
liberal activism at the time.
And he is now under review
because of his association,
through his wife, with
the Communist party.
And this-- is this
the first time
in which his life starts
taking on a political sense,
so to speak?
>>PEAKE: I would say yes.
I would think that his
second wife, Cleo--
because he had a very,
very short marriage when
he was younger.
But his second wife, Cleo, was
it was a very political lady.
And in many ways, I think she
was absolutely right for Phil
at that stage in his
life in the sense
that she politicized
him with a small piece.
She made him aware
of social concerns.
Of course, Berkley at that time,
as has always been the case,
has always been a hotbed
of radical thinking.
And Phil became part of that.
But I think one
of the things that
is typical of Phil and Phil's
personality and his closeness
to people-- although some would
argue that he had difficulty
and there were elements of
autism in his personality,
but effectively, the
Smith and Jones, I think,
were the two characters
that Cleo and Phil called
the agents that used
to watch over them.
And he actually convinced one of
them to teach him how to drive.
So one of these spooks
taught Phil how to drive.
So you can actually see
this curious dynamic
of how Phil could be
incredibly personable.
And people genuinely
liked him and genuinely--
>>REGINA: And also embraced
the circumstance, saying, hey,
this is what it is.
>>REGINA: Yes, I'll use
this to my advantage.
>>PEAKE: I'll use
And so he was followed,
his life was followed,
his work was
followed very closely
by the intelligence communities.
>>PEAKE: Oh, totally.
And he became
convinced that he was
being followed all the time.
And as you probably
know, in November 1971,
I think it was, there was an
incident in his apartment.
And when he came home,
his safe had been blown up
and everything else and
his papers had been stolen.
>>REGINA: Yeah, not
just broken into.
Someone didn't just
try to jerry-rig it.
>>PEAKE: They blew it up.
>>REGINA: They blew it up.
So they felt he was a
person of extreme interest.
>>PEAKE: Yeah, he felt
that he was being watched.
And all through his
life, he had this belief
he was been watched.
In the later stages
in life, he believed
that it was even more strange.
And he felt that it was possibly
to do with even aliens, which
is an intriguing idea, which
I touch on in the book.
>>REGINA: Well, we're
comfortable with this idea.
Our audience is
You can go on as
much as you like.
>>PEAKE: OK, because
Phil very much--
he was interviewed
by Brad Steiger.
And he was interviewed by Brad
on two or three occasions,
and in fact Brad was due to
actually meet up with him
just before he died.
And Phil came to the
conclusion he was a starseed.
And as you know,
Phil had this concept
called the plasmate and
the homoplasmate, the idea
that we are some
form of embodied DNA
and we are from somewhere else.
And Phil argued that he
felt very, very strongly
that at some stage in his
past he had been abducted
or he had been
manipulated in some way.
And in fact, Tessa,
his fifth wife,
also argues the
same kind of thing.
And she says that she felt
that Phil and her were brought
together because
of incidents that
happened in their childhood
where they believed that they
had actually been part of some
kind of program or something.
Now, I can find no
particular evidence of that,
but just because I can't find
evidence of that doesn't mean
it didn't happen.
>>REGINA: No, that's right.
It would be very personal
and experiential.
And the interesting
thing-- I've interviewed
quite a few people
who have claimed
to have had this
experience and there's
certain interesting evidence
in their background,
and the one thing they all
seem to share in common
is that they have an upgraded
hardware system of sorts.
You know what I mean?
>>PEAKE: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: They do have
expanded perception natively.
Many, many of them have
expanded perception.
Many of them have
this same attribute
that they've been able to
go into a future timeline,
for example, or say that they
were shown future events,
either way.
So I'm not saying it's all
down to alien interface,
but it's certainly
conceivable that when
he was very, very young, as
the kind of being that he was,
that he may have had this
experience that gave him access
to more than the rest of us.
>>PEAKE: Well, it
would explain-- I mean,
during his 2-3-74 experiences
where he had a series
of extraordinary
experiences take place--
>>REGINA: Can you
talk about that?
>>PEAKE: Yeah,
2-3-74 is what Phil
used to call the instance
of February and March 1974.
And during that period,
he had been in great pain
with an impacted wisdom tooth.
And he'd been
given various drugs
to deal with this wisdom
tooth and such like.
But one day, he was in such
pain that they sent out
for some drugs,
painkillers, for him.
And when he opened
the door, there
was a young woman at the
door wearing a pendant.
And it was one of the fish
symbols that Christians use.
And Phil claimed that as
he looked at the pendant,
a pink light flashed out and
went into, he later was to say,
his pineal gland and
opened up his mind.
Now, in my book-- I
won't ruin my book--
but I think there are
alternative explanations
for that which are slightly more
mundane but nevertheless still
interesting as to what
stimulated subsequently
what took place.
But effectively he argued
that he started to see things
and perceive things that he
hadn't been aware of before.
He saw the-- he became
profoundly gnostic in the sense
he argued that what
we're living in now
is what he called a
black iron prison.
It's a facsimile universe
created by the Archons,
for want of a better
term, to fool us
and to keep us away from
the real reality, what
he called a palm-tree garden.
He also argued that
time had stopped
in-- he flipped the
dates, but normally 70 AD,
which was the fall of
the temple and the Romans
and the Roman war with the Jews.
And he argued that
time had stopped then,
and we were all trapped.
>>REGINA: Yes, I was going
to ask you about that.
Go on about that a
bit, because it really
was fundamental to his thinking.
>>PEAKE: It was.
And he started to then believed
that he was the incarnation
or he was being communicated
with by somebody
from that period of time.
Now, he then from this
started to realize
that there was something
else manifesting in him.
There was something else that
was downloading information,
giving him information, which
he termed VALIS, Vast, Active
Learning Information System,
which he then came to believe
was some form of satellite, a
geostationary satellite that
was sitting out in space that
was beaming down information
to him.
From there, he then decided
it was the Russians that
were actually
beaming information
from a place somewhere
in the Soviet Union.
He had what he called his
Kandinsky visions, which
were an eight-hour period where
he saw just pictures, paintings
flashed in front of his face.
And they all seemed to be very
similar to the Russian abstract
expressionist Wassily Kandinsky
or various other paintings.
And he checked out, and he found
that a lot of the paintings he
thought he saw were
actually in the Hermitage
in Saint Petersburg.
And he had come
to the conclusion
they were manipulating his mind.
So what he felt was that in
some way or other, a part of him
had been opened up that
was communicating with him.
I'm very intrigued by
this, because I believe
this particular manifestation
of whatever it was
was his own higher self,
and he was communicating
with a part of himself that
knew everything about his life.
And indeed, in my book I cite
some curious examples of-- He
did an interview
in the 1970s where
he described that he had
recently or comparatively
recently been having
dreams of being back
in his house in the early 1950s.
And he then recalled in the
house in the early 1950s
that he once--
two or three times
woke up and saw a man standing
at the end of the bed.
And he believed the man
standing at the end of the bed
was a manifestation of
himself in the future.
But if you take his
orthogonal time hypothesis,
this is perfectly reasonable.
In other words, in
the nether world,
which is our subconscious,
time doesn't exist.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>PEAKE: Therefore we're all
part of our own narrative.
And if there is part of us
that's already experienced
this life, that person's
narrative is our whole life.
We are experiencing
it in linear time,
but you could use the argument
of it's like a computer game.
And there's the
computer game player,
who has lived the
life many times,
and there's the
perception, in which case
that would explain his
backward ability to feed back
plot lines from his own future.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And he had the, some
would say, disadvantage
of having also
seen his own death
along the way and some
other things as well.
>>PEAKE: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I mean, this was
really quite personal for him.
Going back to VALIS, the notion
of the protagonist-- Horselover
Fat, which is his own
name-- it's his own name,
but also the notion of
protagonists in general,
he didn't seem to feel that
the lone protagonist was part
of reality-- that was a
reality, that everything
is so interconnected,
you couldn't even
say there's a lone protagonist,
although he may have created
one such in his
plots, for example.
>>PEAKE: That's the wonderful
thing about the novel "VALIS"
and the creation
of Horselover Fat.
Because in the novel, it's
narrated by a science fiction
writer called Phil Dick.
And Phil Dick discusses
in his narrative
about this friend of
his, Horselover Fat,
who's going absolutely crazy.
And the Phil Dick
character is very much
his rational self analyzing his
own behaviors during 2-3-74,
because effectively, a
lot of the instances that
are described in 2-3-74
are actually incorporated
into the plot in
"VALIS" and indeed
are incorporated into the
plots of "Radio Free Albemuth"
as well.
So he has this punning
title of Horselover Fat,
and the cleverness
of it-- because Phil
was quite a linguist-- and
the Horselover is Philippos
in Greek and in fact is--
Dick is German for fat.
So effectively he
has his own pun.
Now, he was very-- he confused
people in terms of this.
Because many people said, did he
actually deliberately do that?
He wrote to Usrula Le
Guin, one of his friends,
and he said, people
continually say
that Horselover Fat is supposed
to be me, and it's not.
But it self-evidently was.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>PEAKE: And in the novel--
>>REGINA: An aspect of himself.
>>PEAKE: It was an
aspect of himself.
Now, he took this theme further
in many of his other novels
where you have
personalities breaking down.
You have personalities
fractionalizing
into different personalities.
>>REGINA: Which was his reality.
>>PEAKE: Yeah, which
was his reality.
>>REGINA: Well,
and also let's get
into the fact-- he did a lot of
psychedelics and such as well,
didn't he?
>>PEAKE: Well, this is one of
the stories that goes round
that Phil did LSD
quite regularly.
As far as my
research goes, I can
find he did LSD probably
about three or four times.
>>REGINA: That was it.
>>PEAKE: That was it.
>>REGINA: And what were
the experiences that he--
>>PEAKE: They were profound.
He had one experience where
he-- again, it's interesting.
He claimed he started
speaking in Latin and he was--
>>REGINA: He was remembering--
He was was going back into
that Roman timeline that
was so important to
him, though, right?
>>PEAKE: Correct.
He would argue that
he was actually
manifesting the same self within
the personality of an earlier
version of himself, a
recincarnated part of himself
or an earlier part, and that
he was perceiving reality
from that viewpoint.
But of course, again, if
you take Phil's worldview
that reality is
not what it seems,
it's not at all surprising
that time could play around
with itself in that
way within his mind.
>>REGINA: So let's
just kind of hop back
for a sec on that theme
and drag it forward,
the notion of that
frozen point in history,
of the Roman times that he
was relating so strongly to,
and the overlay of what
is occurring today.
>>PEAKE: Yes, it's,
again, the idea
that what we see today
is just a manifestation,
a grounded manifestation
within this reality,
of the creators of the false
reality, and that whatever we
see, whatever we see
problems and torments
and difficulties
in the world, it's
very much the manipulators
of reality that are actually
doing this, that
are playing around
with it in one way or another.
And of course, we
know now-- I mean,
I'm not one for
conspiracy theory,
but if you do look into the
writings of Philip K. Dick
and you look at the writings
of a lot of theorists
in this field, there does
seem to be extreme parallels.
>>REGINA: Yes, perfect overlay.
>>PEAKE: I mean, Phil
was very, very interested
in the idea of DNA manipulating
us in some way or other,
that we have DNA memories
within ourselves.
And of course, there
are many writers
writing about this
thing now as well.
>>REGINA: Let's go
back into the '50s.
Really, a lot of his
musings of this kind
of about a very highly
manipulated society at large
were born out of
the '50s, right?
And now, what I'm
wondering about
that-- it's post World
War II, most of the world
has suffered a
great deal, and you
could say PTSD is kind of
a global state of affairs.
And we know, even through
the subject of hypnosis
and studying that, that any time
you have a fractured psyche,
you have trauma, then you have
a highly programmable society
or individual.
And so can you
talk about what he
was perceiving that
happened to us in the '50s?
And I'm just setting
that as some background.
We were receptive
as a civilization.
>>PEAKE: Well, effectively, we'd
had the trauma of the Second
World War, and we then had the
specter of nuclear weapons.
We then had the
Cold War developing.
We had the Berlin blockade
that we all had to deal with.
And that generation, or
people in that decade,
were continually
believing that the bomb
was going to drop soon.
We then had the
McCarthy witch trials.
We had the witch hunts in
Hollywood of individuals
who were considered
un-American in terms of this.
And we know Phil failed,
partially failed,
with a lot of those
things at the time.
He was aware of these issues.
Phil also carried on
this kind of mental state
into the late
1960s, early 1970s,
with his innate
dislike of Nixon.
>>REGINA: I was just
going to go there next.
OK, before we go to Nixon and
Ferris Farnsworth and all that.
[LAUGHS] Let's
move on now to what
you're talking about as his
innate dislike of Richard
Milhous Nixon, who was
also part of the scaring
up of the Communists in
this country as well.
>>PEAKE: Absolutely.
There are many
parallels, I think,
between the 1950s
and the era of Nixon.
And of course, Phil
living in California
was very much aware of Nixon as
a Californian and Linda Yorba,
I think, where Nixon
was brought up.
>>REGINA: Was it Loma
Linda, I believe.
>>PEAKE: Loma Linda, yes, yes.
And so effectively,
he knew that Nixon
was comparatively
local to him as well.
But he had this kind of
curious, ambivalent relationship
with Nixon, because
in his letters,
there are a series of letters
that-- well, at least one
or two that I'm aware of, that
he actually wrote to Nixon
congratulating him.
So there was this kind
of curious approach
that he took to people.
>>REGINA: Very curious
considering his writings.
>>PEAKE: Very typical
of Phil in many ways.
Now, was he trying to be ironic?
Was he playing
around with things?
It's very difficult to say
from just a bald letter.
But he did definitely
write a letter
to Nixon congratulating him.
But I think in many ways
the 19-- at that time
there was this
same kind of fear.
The Vietnam War was going
terribly, terribly wrong.
The world was looking
again a dangerous place.
The Cold War was
hotting up again.
>>REGINA: We were being sold it.
>>PEAKE: Oh, totally.
>>REGINA: And that's what
he was trying to point out.
We're being sold the Cold War.
>>PEAKE: Totally.
And it was one of
the things that he
felt that he was under attack
by the government at that time,
and it's one the reasons after
the November 1971 break-in
that he disappeared
up to Vancouver.
And for a time, he
was actually thinking
about living in Canada.
Because he felt-- he claimed
that one of the police officers
told him that, you
need to get out,
because they are after you.
>>REGINA: Well,
hadn't he foretold of,
in a thinly disguised manner,
Watergate, for example?
>>PEAKE: Well, in terms of the
idea of facsimile documents
and playing around with
documents, yeah, very much so.
Because one thing we
tend to forget with Phil,
and a lot of people
do forget this,
that Phil didn't
necessarily want
to be a science fiction writer.
He very much wanted to be taken
seriously as a proper writer.
And in the 1950s, he wrote a
series of books, none of which
were published at the
time, about suburban life
in Marin County.
>>REGINA: Marin County, yes.
>>PEAKE: Yeah, Marin.
I always pronounce it wrong.
>>REGINA: I was raised
partly in Marin County, yes.
>>PEAKE: All, right.
I've always wanted to
go there after reading
about Phil's experiences there.
It sounds a beautiful place.
>>REGINA: It's an
interesting place.
Stunning.
>>PEAKE: And again, as
an interesting aside,
in one of his novels, which
I cannot remember the name
of the particular novel, but
there is a UFO group who are
believing that the world
is about to come to an end.
And the character that is the
Phil, quasi-Phil character
gets sucked into this worldview
of this apocalyptic worldview
that the world is about to end.
And of course, again,
what was intriguing was
that-- I think I'm right in
saying-- that it was only
subsequent to Phil
writing that there
was the cult of Bo and Peep.
And of course, they
ended up, I think,
dying of some kind
of curious thing.
And of course, we had
the Solar Temple as well.
So there were these kind
of apocalyptic groups
that Phil was attuning
into at the time.
>>REGINA: Well,
he was also tuning
into Nixon and his future.
I mean, Nixon figures
prominently in some of this.
So maybe it's time to go there.
I mean, when he--
that statement was
made about the
resurgence of Nixon
in 1968, where he would reclaim
his power, when he was toast,
he was dead, politically
dead, at the time that this
was written, which was
1963, and then also
the character of
Ferris F. Farnsworth,
and what that actually
meant numerologically.
>>PEAKE: Yes, of course.
I'd not thought about, either.
So he's actually playing on
the idea of numerology and 666,
I guess, which is interesting.
He has these ambivalent
political characters.
And in "Radio Free
Albemuth," there
is the negative president
that is creating fear.
And I think the
president at that stage
believes and has people
believe that there
is this underground movement
that are trying to overthrow
Western values and
American values,
and again, the central
character, Nicholas Brady, who
is the Philip K. Dick character,
who has a series of events
taking place in his life,
which again parallel completely
Phil's 2-3-74 events.
As you probably
know, Phil claimed
that he diagnosed a birth
defect, an inguinal hernia,
that his son Christopher had.
The story there is not quite
as Phil stated it, by the way.
I did actually discuss with
Tess this in great detail,
and Tess was the only
person that was there.
Phil gives the
impression that he
had this-- he heard--
he was listening
to the Beatles singing
"Strawberry Fields
Are Forever."
As he was listening to it,
the Beatles' voices changed,
and they started
to sing, your son
has an inoperable birth defect.
Basically, you better
get him to hospital
because he's going to die.
So Phil comes running out of
his bedroom, says to Tess,
Christopher is seriously ill.
We've got to do something.
Tess and him grab
Christopher, drive him
to the doctor's, the
doctors say, whoa, God.
It's a good job you
came, because Christopher
would have died.
That's not how it happened.
In fact, Christopher--
it was a good year later
before they did anything
with Christopher.
And also as far as I understand
it from talking to Tess,
I think I'm right in saying
that Phil didn't have
a record player in his
bedroom, this kind of thing.
It was in the living room.
So there's a certain
degree of embroidery there.
But Phil was a novelist.
We have to understand
that Phil wrote
about the world in the
way he perceived it to be.
>>REGINA: Not to pound on it,
but Richard Milhous Nixon,
Tricky Dick, but let's go
back there a little bit again,
because wasn't there something
in his writings about--
and I can't remember what--
about a theme in which
the only way this particular
character could ever
take office was if everyone
before him was eliminated
through assassination?
>>PEAKE: Right again.
It's the story I don't know, but
I don't know all of his stuff.
But that's an interesting
idea, isn't it?
And he idea, the
implication being
that Nixon had in some
way been responsible
for the assassination
of the Kennedys.
Which it's amazing he got
away with that, really,
to be honest.
>>REGINA: Yes, that was what
I was alluding to, absolutely.
I found it interesting
the notion that five years
in advance, in a
1963 publication,
that he had foretold of
Nixon's rise back to power.
And what that triggered in me,
and I don't want to name names,
but I was sitting in a
certain place along the river
with someone who has a
lot of inside connections
and was telling me that
in this next election,
this is who will be
put up as the candidate
and then told me all
the politics behind it.
And this was four years
before it occurred.
And that's why-- you know,
a few things like that
had me wondering, was
he tapping into this?
Did he have access to anyone
who had this kind of knowledge,
such as this insider
who I will not mention?
>>PEAKE: That's an
interesting idea, isn't it?
Because Phil's, again,
in "Radio Free Albemuth,"
the descriptions
and the things he
writes in there show a very,
very political angle, which
is to a degree quite unusual
for Phil in the sense
that he would write novels that
were like space operas-- well,
they weren't space operas.
Phil never wrote space operas.
But they were very much
located on other planets
or in a dystopian future.
>>REGINA: Which would
kind of make sense
with the alien potential
interface of his youth.
>>PEAKE: Absolutely.
Whereas in "Radio
Free Albemuth,"
it is the very near future.
And in fact a friend of
mine, John Allen Simon,
has just brought out the movie.
And they made a movie of
"Radio Free Albemuth," which
is well worth checking
out, because it's
an excellent version.
I think it's probably the best
movie made on a Philip K. Dick
story I've ever seen.
>>REGINA: So as he
goes on now, he's
becoming a person of interest.
You alluded to this earlier.
He didn't want to
be a sci-fi writer.
He wanted to be taken seriously.
However, it sounds as though
his publisher forced upon him
the notion of taking everything
more into a sci-fi category.
Was this the Scott
Meredith publishing company
or another one at that
time, do you know?
>>PEAKE: I don't know.
Scott Meredith I
know was his agent.
>>REGINA: Yes, and he
was relaying the info
from the publishing agent.
They need you to pump
it up on the sci-fi.
Why?
Do you think that the
intelligence communities
were that afraid of him?
>>PEAKE: I wonder
whether they particularly
knew about him at the time, the
early time when he was actually
writing more and
more short stories.
And I genuinely don't now.
I think at the early stage,
they probably at a low level
were aware of him, but
they didn't probably
see him as a danger.
I think it was only
later when he started
to really get involved and
become more famous, I think,
that people probably started
to be more aware of him.
Because remember, Phil himself
had elements of paranoia within
himself that he would actually
see slights and threats
and dangers where there weren't.
And he would readily
agree that himself.
But in terms of
the science fiction
and his being forced
down that route,
I think it was basically because
he was a very good science
fiction writer.
And if you read his novels, his
serious novels, they are good,
but Phil's imagination is
so restricted by the genre
of realistic realism
and writing realism
that he couldn't
really fly in the way
that he can with his novels.
And in his novels, he can create
the most amazing scenarios,
and he will usually-- and
usually mostly of his scenarios
were based normally
upon very, very
powerful philosophical
constructs,
theological constructs, that
he could embroider around
them and allow his
imagination to fly.
Whereas a normal,
straightforward novel,
probably he couldn't.
>>REGINA: So of his
books, which one
do you think addressed
most strongly the notion
that we are living a completely
constructed, false reality?
>>PEAKE: I think
probably "Ubik."
Because "Ubik" is
a fascinating novel
that you can read on so
many different levels.
But effectively,
the central premise
is that we are all
effectively stuck
in this kind of
almost bardo state.
And certain people are
outside of the bardo state
sending messages in to us.
I mean, it's a very,
very clever storyline.
But effectively,
that's the basic idea
and the basic premise.
So there are messages being
sent in from elsewhere.
Messages where somebody's--
>>REGINA: Does the word
Archon come into this at all?
>>PEAKE: Not particularly
in this case,
although there is an argument
to say that, again, it
is somebody outside
of the construct who's
trying to communicate
with people
who are inside the construct.
>>REGINA: And also maybe
control perceptions of people
within the construct.
>>PEAKE: Oh, totally.
Effectively, that's
one of the major issues
in "Ubik" is that
ubik, ubiquitous,
the actual substance,
starts to control,
and ubik itself
becomes God, in effect.
It is everything, and
it controls everything,
and it is an emanation
of everything.
But in the novel, for
instance, things happen,
messages are written, somebody's
head appears on a dollar sign.
Everything is then
going into entropy,
and it's all sort of winding
backwards and everything.
Very, very clever novel,
and I would strongly
advise anybody to read it.
Because to me, I
think it's probably,
after "VALIS," his
most powerful novel.
>>REGINA: If you listen to some
of the people I've interviewed,
they'd say what he was
talking about is our reality.
>>PEAKE: Oh, if you actually
read Philip K. Dick,
and you have a knowledge
of Gnosticism, the Kabalah,
if you have knowledge
of Zoroastrianism
and various other theological
and philosophical concepts,
you'll suddenly find that
what Phil was writing
was effective Gnosticism.
William Blake came
up with the idea
of the mind-forged manacles.
Philip K. Dick comes up
with the black iron prison,
the same kind of
concept, the idea
that we are trapped in
some kind of simulation.
And in fact, his
very last novel that
remains unpublished, because
I think he wrote at least two
or three different versions
of it, "The Owl in Daylight,"
has exactly that.
And there's a sequence
in "The Owl in Daylight"
where the central character
is trapped within a computer
program.
It's not really a
computer program;
it's a kind of a
program of a theme park.
And the central
character's trapped.
And his daughter is sent
from outside the program
into the program to
speak to her father
to convince him of
the fact that he's
living within the simulation.
Now again, in one of his other
novels, he discusses this.
In "The Divine Invasion,"
we have again the idea
that we are God and God
has forgotten who he is.
In other words, we are all
emanations of something
greater.
But we're trapped
and being fooled
by what the Gnostics would
call Yaldabaoth, the Demiurge.
The Demiurge has
created this illusion,
and we're trapped within it,
and only certain individuals
see through it.
And Phil would argue that it's
only by training your mind
or whatever you can see
through the illusion, which
of course is the matrix.
>>REGINA: Of course
it's the matrix, yes.
And you're also a friend
of Kingsley Dennis, who
I'll be interviewing
in another day or so.
And as you were speaking,
what I was seeing
was that perhaps
that's what he's
talking about with the
Phoenix Generation.
Perhaps these children
that are coming in
are the ones, as
the daughter was,
that are reaching into
our reality and saying,
you are-- what you're
seeing is not all there is.
It's not true.
There's so much more
to your reality.
What would you say about that?
>>PEAKE: I totally
agree with that.
Kingsley sent me an
advance PDF of the book,
and it blew me away.
No, very much so.
It's a wonderful book.
>>REGINA: It is.
I'm looking forward
to that interview.
But it seems to align
perfectly with what you're
saying about this notion of the
story of the daughter reaching
in.
>>PEAKE: Yeah, it's kind
of the breakthrough.
Because effectively, the
world has severe problems
at the moment.
And there is something
definitely not
right with the way things are.
>>REGINA: No, and, you
know, I think about it
from a very practical
point of view,
just a functional
point of view, how
we're so habituated to such
a small spectrum of reality,
every one of us.
I mean, it's a rare one,
maybe some of the little ones,
maybe the Philip K. Dicks
of the world are not.
But I think how embarrassed
I am, personally even,
that I'm so habituated
that I would drive
the same way to the
same place each time
when there might be
10 different routes.
Something as simple as breaking
that habituation in our mind
and taking a different
route to a place
is the beginning of breaking out
of the matrix, as simple as it
sounds, of just not ordering
the exact same cup of coffee
the same way every morning.
This is that program that we
have been habituated into.
And we're sold it every single
moment of our lives, if we're
and about, around other
people, media, et cetera.
>>PEAKE: No, I totally agree.
We do live in this world
where we're sold ideas,
we're sold everything.
And again, it's what
Phil would argue.
Phil with preoccupied
with advertising
and how advertising works,
how it manipulates us,
how newspapers manipulate
our thoughts and ideas.
And I'm of the opinion that
even the way we perceive reality
is very much part of what we
are told we should perceive.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>PEAKE: The term
that I've come across,
which I use quite
regularly at the moment,
is electromagnetic
chauvinism, the idea
that we believe what we
see out there is real,
because this is what
our eyes tell us.
Well of course, we're
seeing such a tiny part
of the electromagnetic spectrum.
So therefore, to say
that this is reality-- we
also, the way we perceive
time, as Phil would argue
with orthogonal time, is
that we think this-- the way
we perceive time is now
the way time is perceived.
Yet we know that animals
with greater metabolic rates
perceive time much
slower than we do.
So we are being chauvinists
in terms of our time,
in terms of our perceptions,
in terms of everything
we create around us.
>>REGINA: And as some of his
themes would have indicated,
we have eyes on us, so to speak.
We're being controlled.
And so if you look at it from
the point of view of the media
alone, as I interviewed
Richard Dolan one time, talking
about the notion of the
reality of the presence
of the intelligence communities
in almost all media,
I think in Britain as
well as in America.
I don't think it's just
America, where at key positions
there's intelligence
that is guiding
our perception for reasons far
beyond them, I would imagine.
>>PEAKE: Yes, because it's one
of the ongoing mysteries to me,
is that we are being
manipulated to believe
certain things in certain ways.
And you try to think of what's
the ongoing game plan here?
If we're being manipulated
to think in a certain way,
why are we being manipulated?
What is the endgame?
What is the reasons
for these things?
And as I get older, I've become
even more confused about it,
to be honest, as to
where the world is going
and what the game play--
one could argue, I mean,
for many years I've very
much been a believer
of the cock-up
theory of history,
that there isn't any
really grand design,
that people just knee-jerk
because the people in power
are no more intelligent
than we are.
They just have access
to more information.
But if they do have
access to more information
than we do, why do they make
the bizarre decisions they do?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
That's a good question.
In Philip K. Dick's work, what
would you say is-- is there--
it was so dystopian in nature.
Is there anything
that really gives us
some hope toward our future?
>>PEAKE: I think the
thing that-- if we're
taking Philip K. Dick as being
the philosopher and the prophet
of our future, I
think the one thing
that Phil is, he was
a wonderful humorist.
He saw the ridiculous in things.
I think in many ways a lot
of people misread Philip K.
Dick because they think he's
being serious when in fact he's
not.
You know his tongue
is firmly in his cheek
when he does these things
and plays these things.
So effectively, I think that,
in general, Phil's novels
do not have a
great deal of hope.
I think there are
very few of them
in which the central
character receives absolution
or he succeeds in his actions.
He tends to be
worn down by it all
and tends to end up almost
being resigned to it all.
And I think in many ways,
without Phil's worldview,
that you can fight and fight
against the powers that be,
but in the final
analysis, you're
still a little man
fighting a big world.
But I'd like to believe
that within it all, as he
was getting towards
the end of his life,
he was starting to
see this greater
picture, the idea of the
concept of VALIS, the idea
that there is something
outside of ourselves.
And I'm sure that
had he lived longer
than he did, dying tragically
young, that his novels would
have probably brought
out a lot of the themes
that were fascinating him.
And I strongly advise
anybody, if you
get the opportunity--
it's a long, hard read,
but get hold of a copy of "The
Exegesis" and just dip into it.
Because you'll see
that his mind was
going in a myriad of
different directions,
and it's fascinating to just
postulate which direction
he would have taken.
I'd like to believe he would
have taken the direction
that he was following with one
of the versions, the version
of "The Owl in Daylight"
with the computer program.
Because I think that's the
area Phil would move into.
And I think that's the area now
that an awful lot of writers
and scientists and philosophers
are moving towards,
this idea of the
simulation argument.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And one can only
hope that once he
was released from his
physical reality, which
was so torturous
and painful for him,
that on some level, whether
it be something that happens
by one's own spiritual awareness
or otherwise, he and his sister
were reunited, because
a lot of his torture,
a lot of his feeling of this
shame of being the survivor,
really impacted him
throughout his entire life.
>>PEAKE: Oh, totally, and it's
a wonderful idea, because I'm
reminded of the sad
idea that Phil lived
his whole life knowing that
on a hillside in Colorado
was a tombstone,
and on the tombstone
was the name of Jane Dick.
And Philip K. Dick,
Philip Kindred Dick,
was also carved in it with just
the filling in of the dates.
And I thought the idea of the
reunification with his sister
would have been of
profound importance to him.
Had she lived, he
may not have been
the writer he was,
because of course writers
write through pain.
But I would like to believe
that that reunification was
for him perfection and that
he and his sister moved on.
Because in most
of his novels, you
have the ongoing theme
of the dark-haired girl.
>>REGINA: That's right.
I got chills when you said that.
>>PEAKE: And it clearly is her.
>>REGINA: Oh.
>>PEAKE: The Shekinah,
his Shekinah.
>>REGINA: Yes,
Shekinah, his Sophia.
>>PEAKE: His Sophia.
>>REGINA: And so, we only
have a minute or so left.
You're involved with a
documentary out of France
right now that you say sounds
to be really impeccable in what
they're going to--
>>PEAKE: Yeah, it's about
some of the subjects
we're discussing today
about Philip K. Dick seeing
the future as some form
of prophet with a small p.
And the director
is Denis Delestrac,
who has done a series of
absolutely superb documentaries
in the past.
He took a team who worked
their way down the Nile River,
"Secrets of the Nile."
He's also done a movie
called "Sand Wars."
And the quality of the
filming is phenomenal.
And he interviews a lot
of the major characters
in Phil's life.
And he has a fascinating
interview with Rutger Hauer
as well, which he tells
me is absolutely superb.
He interviews Tessa and
various other individuals.
This is well worth watching.
And it is in English.
>>REGINA: It is in English.
>>PEAKE: It is in English.
So it will be subtitled for--
>>REGINA: And you
feature prominently now.
>>PEAKE: I do, apparently,
yes, which is rather nice.
>>REGINA: Very good.
Can't wait to see it,
2015 sometime, right?
>>PEAKE: It will be, yes.
>>REGINA: Hopefully.
Thank you so much for
your time, Anthony.
>>PEAKE: Thank you very
much for inviting me.
Thank you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]